.\"	$eterna: ircII.1,v 1.31 2014/08/25 19:24:49 mrg Exp $
.Dd August 25, 2014
.Dt IRCII 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ircII
.Nd interface to the Internet Relay Chat system
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm irc
.Op Fl abdFfqrSsTtv
.Op Fl c Ar chan
.Op Fl D Ar level
.Op Fl e Ar protocol level
.Op Fl H Ar hostname Ns Bq Ar :port
.Op Fl h Ar hostname Ns Bq Ar :port
.Op Fl I Ar ircrcquick
.Op Fl icb
.Op Fl irc
.Op Fl l Ar ircrc
.Op Fl o Ar file
.Op Fl P Ar portno
.Op Fl p Ar portno
.Op Fl R Ar proxyhost Ns Bq Ar :port
.Op Ar nickname Op Ar server list
.Op Fl Fl
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program is a full screen, termcap based interface to Internet Relay
Chat.
It gives full access to all of the normal IRC functions, plus a
variety of additional options.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width 25n
.It Fl a
This adds the normal irc server list to the command line list of irc
servers.
.It Fl b
Load the
.Pa .ircrc
file before connection to a server, not afterwards.
.It Fl c Ar chan
Automatically join channel
.Ar chan .
.It Fl d
Start in non-full screen mode.
All input is taken directly from stdin and all output goes to stdout
without using any of the
.Xr termcap 5
screen control codes.
.It Fl D Ar level
Enable debugging of
.Ar level .
This option is only available if
.Nm
is built with
.Dv -DDEBUG .
.It Fl e Ar protocol level
For protocol
.Ar protocol ,
set the default encryption (SSL) level to
.Ar level .
Currently, only "IRC" is supported for the
.Ar protocol
and the values that
.Ar level
can take are "check", "nocheck", and "off".
Please also see the description of the "server list" below.
.It Fl F
Don't use flow control (^S and ^Q) to stop start the display.
This switch is ignored if the
.Fl d
switch is used.
.It Fl f
Use flow control (^S and ^Q) to stop/start the display.
Normally these are both bound to other functions within
.Nm .
This switch is ignored if the
.Fl d
switch is used.
.It Fl H Ar hostname Ns Bq Ar :port
This option instructs
.Nm
to use the given
.Ar hostname
as the local address for DCC, and works otherwise identically to the
.Fl h
option.
.It Fl h Ar hostname Ns Bq Ar :port
This option instructs
.Nm
to use the given
.Ar hostname
as the local address.
Useful only on multi-homed hosts.
If the optional port segment is included,
.Nm
will attempt to bind to this local port as well as local host address.
If the hostname is an IPv6 "number", it must be provided in the common
.Ar Bq 12:34:ab:cd
format.
This means for an IPv6 "number" and port, it would be written
.Ar [12:34:ab:cd]:6669 .
.It Fl icb
Use ICB connections by default.
.It Fl irc
Use IRC connections by default.
.It Fl l Ar ircrc
Use
.Ar ircrc
Instead of the default
.Pa ~/.ircrc .
.It Fl o Ar file
Set the debug output file to
.Ar file .
This option is only available if
.Nm
is built with
.Dv -DDEBUG .
.It Fl P Ar portno
Set the ICB port number to
.Ar portno
(default: 7326, the standard ICB port).
.It Fl p Ar portno
Set the IRC port number to
.Ar portno
(default: 6667, the standard IRC port).
Only supply this if you connect to a server which uses a port other than 6667.
.It Fl q
Start up
.Nm
quickly.
Don't load the IRCRC file, only the quick IRCRC file set by the
.It Fl I
option.
.It Fl R Ar proxyhost Ns Bq Ar :port
Set the default HTTP proxy host for server connections to
.Ar proxyhost:port .
.It Fl r
Reverse the normal default foreground and background colours.
.It Fl S
Start up the ircio process to connect to the IRC server.
.It Fl s
Don't start up the ircio process to connect to the IRC server (default).
.It Fl T
Do use the termcap
.Dv ti
and
.Dv te
sequences when starting and exiting if they exist.
.It Fl t
Don't use the termcap
.Dv ti
and
.Dv te
sequences when starting and exiting (default).
.It Fl v
Print the version and release date of
.Nm
and exit.
.It Fl Fl
End all option processing.
.El
.Pp
The remaining command line arguments are:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Ar nickname
Set the nickname
(overrides the environment variable
.Ev IRCNICK ;
default: the username).
.It
.Ar server list
Set the list of servers with which
.Nm
will try to connect upon startup.
This list is also used by the program's
.Ic /server
command.
.El
.Pp
For IRC connections, the format is:
.Ar hostname Ns Op Ar :portno Ns Op Ar :password Ns Op Ar :nick
.Pp
For ICB connections, the format is:
.Ar ICB/hostname Op Ar :portno Ns Op Ar :nick Ns Op Ar :group Ns Op Ar :mode
with
.Ar group
being the initial group and
.Ar mode
being the initial group mode.
See
.Ic /HELP ICB
for more information about ICB.
.Pp
If the
.Ar hostname
is in the format
.Ar :servergroup:host.com
then
.Ar servergroup
is taken to be the Server Group for this server entry.
.Pp
If the
.Ar hostname
is prefixed with
.Cm SSLIRC/
or
.Cm SSLIRCNOCHECK/
then an attempt will be made to initiate an SSL/TLS connection
for this host.
The
.Cm SSLIRCNOCHECK/
form does not verify the remote server's certificate, which
may have security implications.
Please see SSL/TLS documentation for more information.
.Pp
If the
.Ar hostname
is prefixed with
.Cm PROXY/proxyname:proxyport/
then this server will be connected via specified HTTP proxy server.
The
.Cm NO_PROXY/
prefix will disable any global proxy setting for this server.
.Sh DETAILED DESCRIPTION
.Ss The Screen
The
screen is split into two parts, separated by an inverse-video
status line (if supported).
The upper (larger) part of the screen displays responses from the IRC
server.
The lower part of the screen (a single line) accepts keyboard input.
.Pp
Some terminals do not support certain features required by
.Nm ,
in which case you receive a message stating this.
If this occurs, try changing the terminal type or run
.Nm
with the
.Fl d
option.
.Ss IRC Commands
Any line beginning with the slash character
.Pq Sq /
is regarded as an
.Nm
command (the command character may be changed; type
.Ic /help set cmdchar ) .
Any line not beginning with this character is treated as a message to
be sent to the current channel.
To produce a listing of commands, type
.Ic /help \&? .
To receive information about the commands type
.Ic /help <command> .
.Ss The .ircrc File
When
.Nm
is executed, it checks the user's home directory for a
.Pa .ircrc
file, executing the commands in the file.
Commands in this file do not
need to have a leading slash character
.Pq Sq / .
This allows predefinition of aliases and other features.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
It can be helpful to predefine certain variables in
in the
.Pa .cshrc ,
.Pa .profile ,
or
.Pa .login
file:
.Bl -tag -width 12n
.It Dv IRCNICK
The user's
.Nm
nickname.
.It Dv IRCNAME
The user's IRC realname (otherwise retreived from
.Pa /etc/passwd )
.It Dv IRCSERVER
The default IRC server(s) (see server option for details)
.It Dv IRCSERVERSFILE
The file containing the default list of server(s), usually
.Pa PREFIX/share/irc/ircII.servers .
This file should contain one server entry per line.
.It Dv HOME
Overrides the default home path in
.Pa /etc/passwd .
.It Dv TERM
The type of terminal in use.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width 20n
.It Pa ~/.ircrc
default initialization file
.It Pa ~/.irc/
directory into which you can put your own
.Nm
scripts, that can then be loaded with
.Ic /load
.It Pa .../share/irc/
directory containing message-of-the-day, master initialization, help files, and
.Nm
scripts
.It Pa .../share/irc/script/global
file loaded at the start of every
.Nm
session.
.It Pa PREFIX/share/irc/ircII.servers
The initial list of servers if none are provided on the command line.
.It Pa PREFIX/share/irc/ircII.motd
Message of the day.
This file is displayed only once each time it is changed.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl irc -c #users -p 5555
Connect IRC to port number 5555 of the default host and enter on channel #users.
.Dl irc Mermaid
Use the nickname
.Dq Mermaid .
.Dl irc Mermaid server1:5000 server2::passwd server3
Use the nickname
.Dq Mermaid
and the modified server list.
.Dl irc piglet3 :ln:irc1.lamenet.org :ln:irc.us.lamenet.org
Use the nickname
.Dq piglet3 ,
initially connecting to irc.au.lamenet.org,
with also irc.us.lamenet.org added to the server list, both having a
server group name
.Dq ln .
.Dl irc oink ICB/www.icb.net
Use the nick
.Dq oink
making an ICB connection to www.icb.net.
.Dl irc -d
Use dumb mode.
.Dl irc -f
Allow use of ^S/^Q to stop/start screen display.
.Dl irc -e elisa
Interface IRC with a program called
.Dq elisa .
.Bd -literal -offset indent
setenv IRCNICK Mermaid
setenv IRCNAME \"The one and only :)\"
irc
.Ed
Set the username (if not specified elsewhere) to
.Dq Mermaid .
The user's name (when provided inside parentheses in response to a
.Ic WHOIS
command) is set to
.Dq The one and only :) .
.Sh THE HELP FILES
All of the
.Nm
commands are fully described in the help files package.
The best way to start here is with the
.Ic /HELP \&?
command as this prints a listing of all available help files.
.Sh SIGNALS
.Nm
handles the following signals
.Bl -tag -width 15n
.It Dv SIGUSR1
Closes all DCC connections and EXEC'ed processes.
.It Dv SIGUSR2
Drops
.Nm
back to the command line.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr irc 1 ,
.Xr ircd 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Program written by
.An Michael Sandrof Aq Mt ms5n+@andrew.cmu.edu .
Now being maintained by
.An Matthew Green Aq Mt mrg@eterna.com.au
Names of contributors and contact address can be retrieved with the
.Ic /info
command.
This manual page written by
.An Darren Reed Aq Mt avalon@coombs.anu.EDU.AU ,
revised by
.An R. P. C. Rodgers Aq Mt rodgers@maxwell.mmwb.ucsf.edu ,
by the
.An lynX ,
and by
.An Matthew Green Aq Mt mrg@eterna.com.au .
.Sh BUGS
Please notify the current developer of the software of any bugs in
current versions.
